This text file is meant to give a short description of all the studies and sources that we are gathering,
each one with a short explanation of its contents and relevance to the project.

Studies:

- "MUSIC MOOD DATASET CREATION BASED ON LAST.FM TAGS" by Erion Çano and Maurizio Morisio:
    filename: music_mood_lastfm.pdf
    content: using the last.fm music dataset, strive to create a complete mood categorisation based on
                a popular mood taxonomy. Last.fm is particularly useful since users can use any tag for any kind
                of music, and so there is an unstructred set of tags that can be filtered to a systematic classification.
    relevance: has provided initial insight into mood taxonomies, as well as potential applications to music sentiment analysis.
                also provides insight into the vast and varied last.fm tagging system, which is useful for our project.
                Most common tag categories in last.fm are genre, opinion, mood, instruments, epoch, locations.


- "A social tag-based dimensional model of emotions: Building cross-domain folksonomies" by Ignacio Fernández-Tobías, Iván Cantador, Laura Plaza:
    filename: music_book_lexicon.pdf
    content: by defining music and movies emotion folksonomies, and tracing them back to a model of core emotions, the authors are able to establish
                a link between the two domains. This so-called cross-reference folksonomy might be useful for future recommendation systems.
    relevance: it contains exactly part of what we need to do with our book-music tag mapping, to construct our own lexicon of book-music tags 
                (taking into account the limited scope of this project)
    (vocab) Folksonomy: the set of tags in a social tagging system, which is an unstructured environment in which users can associated any opinion tag 
                    (including mood tags) to any item in their domain. It results in a massive but unstructured knowledge classification scheme that can have many uses. 
                    for example, last.fm contains a folksonomy for tracks and other music items.
                    Folksonomies contain mood tags that are domain-specific, and so part of the challenge is about translating between the limited tag domain that 
                    storygraph offers, and the vast folksonomy of last.fm.

- "Categorising Social Tags to Improve Folksonomy-based Recommendations" by Iván Cantador, Ioannis Konstas, Joemon M. Jose:
    filename: categorising_social_tags.pdf
    content: the authors proposed a different method of exploiting folksonomies for recommendation systems, taking into account the purpose of the tags.
                filtering tags into purpose-oriented categories achieves a similar performance, while reducing work.
    relevance: provides insight into different tag purposes, which might be useful when constructing our book-music tag mapping. for example, we will
                need to treat mood tags and genre tags completely differently.

- "Understanding Booksonomies: How and why are book taggers tagging?" by Aedín Guyot:
    filename: understanding_booksonomies.pdf
    content: by analising the tags of 50 of the most famous books in LibraryThing, the author tries to infer general categorisation models and patterns
                for a booksonomy (based on user motivation for tagging a book), as well as other aspects like tag frequency and distribution.
    relevance: by looking into how users tend to classify their favorite books, we might have a useful scheme by which to base our book tagging. It
                is also useful when making a comparison into the much-different music folksonomies. Provides an example of a booksonomy (LibraryThing).
                Most popular categories for book tagging in the LibraryThing booksonomy are genre/style, subject (of the book), and personal tags (those 
                that are relevant only for the user that used the tag, likely for personal organisation). In non-fiction subject was the most popular category of tags.

- "Inferring Semantic Facets of a Music Folksonomy with Wikipedia":
    filename: music_folksonomies_wikipedia.pdf
    content: the authors use the Last.fm folksonomy as a basis to infer semantic facets, and then classify tags into these facets, using Wikipedia as a knowledge base.
    relevance: uses the "gold standard" on music tagging, four main facets that serve as ground truth: genres, instruments, locations & languages, and moods.


Sources:

https://books.org/blog/should-you-listen-to-music-while-reading/
    content: in this blog post, the author ponders the pros and cons of listening to music while reading. they posit that, while every reader 
                is different, there are generally preferred aspects for music that enhances the reading experiences, such as: no lyrics, low tempo,
                low volume, instrumental music, ambient music, classical, jazz, etc.
    relevance: it might be the beginning of research into the "listenability" of music while reading. in the future, we might want to consider 
                other aspects like tempo, presence of lyrics, favor certain moods over others, etc.

# Provides a list of songs for some categories of books (about love, about friendship...). Shows that there is a community interested in this topic
https://windowstoworlds.wordpress.com/2020/07/31/music-to-listen-to-while-reading/